So let's talk about writing copy for
the web,
because in my experience,
most people suck at this, right?
Just because, I'm not gonna say you
guys cuz I know a lot of you guys
read the designers or developers and so
you wouldn't claim to be good copywriters.
But just because you're a marketer or
an academic or someone that writes
business reports does not mean you can
write good copy for a website, right?
It's a very different approach that has to
be done in a very, very particular way.
And so this is why I'm currently
encouraging you guys to have a go at copy.
Cuz I know a lot of you will
be sitting there thinking,
I'm no good at writing copy, right?
But neither is anybody else.
[LAUGH] That's the truth of it, that
very few people can write good web copy.
And at least you've sat
through this course and
learnt the basics of how to do it.
And to be quite frank, because you're
immersed in the web all the time,
you've got a much more intuitive
feel of how people read, right?
A lot of people are still under this
delusion that people read websites.
But you and I know they don't do that,
you and I know people scan websites.
They're looking for the bits of
information that they want, and
has a fundamental effect on how
you go about creating copy.
In actual fact, according to some
research by the Nielsen Norman Group,
people are only reading less than
25% of the copy on any page.
So that creates some real challenges
if we wanna create compelling copy that
encourage people to take action.
So you need some basic ideas
about how to go about doing it.
So the first thing is to understand
that a website isn't a book,
isn't a brochure, isn't something you flip
through in any logical way necessarily.
So we need to design a kinda content
hierarchy that accommodates the somewhat
anarchistic way that
people access a website.
But also take into account
different learning styles and
different ways people consume content.
So a very broad wholly level, people tend
to consume content in one of two ways.
There's people like me,
right, who are to be honest,
I'm not a details person, right?
I'm not somebody that is very good at
kind of paying attention to details.
I'm give me the big picture, right?
So I'm the kind of people, I just want the
summary, I'll make a gut reaction as to
whether this product is for me or
not, and I'll make a decision, right?
So I'm exceptionally lazy and rely heavily
on system one, the automatic path.
While my co-founder of the agency I
used to run, he's a details person.
He's the person that reads iTune terms and
conditions, that kind of person.
And he will want a lot more detail
on our website than I will.
So that creates an interesting challenge,
doesn't it?
How do you accommodate people like my
co-founder, Chris, at the same time
not overwhelming someone like me,
right, who just wants a big picture?
Well, you do it by creating
a content hierarchy that guides
people through the process a little bit.
So, again,
I'm not necessarily expecting you to see
the details of this particular slide.
But essentially it comes to
the hierarchy of your website
should drill down into
progressively more detail.
So the homepage of your website is the
summary, is the thing for people like me,
or your landing page or
whatever you wanna call it, right?
That's the thing that's aimed at people
like me that just want the summary,
top level information.
And then,
people can drill down into more details.
For example, you might have a page for
each of your benefits.
Remember I talked about
the different benefits,
you might unpack those in more detail
with a whole page on each one, right?
Or your list of features might have
multiple pages, one for each feature.
Also, of course, you might have
multiple products, in which case,
you'll wanna have landing pages for
each of those products.
So the deeper you go in the site, the more
detail and more nuance you're unpacking
for those people that want that without
it cluttering up the experience for
those people who just want
the summary at the top level.
So that's the first thing
you need to bear in mind.
But the same principle of this
kinda hierarchy of content
doesn't just apply to the site as a whole.
It also applies with
the individual pages as well.
So the title of the page, right,
is gonna be our strap line, or
is going to be the must know,
it's got to include that must know
information that just got to know.
Then you might have a summary underneath
that, a couple of sentences that maybe
go into a little bit more detail,
include little bit more information.
And then maybe you've got some headings
that have got a little bit more nuance.
And then sub headings, and
then section copy, and so
it's going from must knows all
the way down to nice to know.
And you gotta all the time keep that
hierarchy in your minds as you work.
So how do you achieve
this in practical terms?
So we've got a strap line,
which is obviously gonna go at the top.
And then we might write a little bit of a
summary that unpacks that in a little bit
more that sits underneath.
But then we've got our chunk of benefits
or chunk of features and our objections.
So what do we do with each of those
bullet points that we've created for
those different things?
Well, for each one, we need to
think in terms of content blocks.
If you look at pretty much any website,
it's made up of content blocks, right?
And each benefit, each feature,
each objection probably is gonna
have its own content block, okay?
So, for example, if you had benefits,
you would have your three benefits
side by side in three columns,
right, like I've mocked up here.
And that would be a chunk on the page.
Remember I talked about chunking.
You can do that with content as well.
So you've got your benefits chunked,
grouped together.
Then underneath that, you'll have your
features grouped together, right?
And each content block is made
up of four elements, right,
two of which are optional, right?
The required ones is a heading and
a short description.
So if your benefit is to lose
the weight after pregnancy,
right, your heading will be Lose
the Weight after Pregnancy.
And then the copy underneath might go,
losing weight build up in pregnancy
is one of the hardest things to do.
And our app is optimized to guide you
through the process as quickly and
painlessly as possible,
done, boom, all right?
That is your summary version for
the likes of me, okay?
I might only read the heading.
I might just read the Lose Weight after
Pregnancy and that might be enough for me,
and I'm ready to go, although admittedly
I'm not likely to get pregnant,
so it's not the most
appropriate example for me.
But I might want a little bit more
information, what do you mean by that?
Well, then I can read the bit underneath.
Now, some people like Chris,
my co-founder, he will want even more,
well, how are you gonna do that?
How does it work?
How long will it take that kind of thing?
Well for me, for Chris, then you can add
a link in, right, on your content block,
which would go off to a page that would
break that down in more information.
Now, some people are more visual thinkers,
right, so you might wanna add an image in.
That's another optional thing that you can
do, just to grab people's attention so
they can look at it, and
it might show a pregnant woman on scales,
just to kind of in some way indicate
what the content block is about.
So you're giving these visual clues, but
everything is organized
into these content blocks.
So you need to take your list of benefits,
your list of features, and
possibly your objections, I'll
explain that in a little bit more, and
go through and write content blocks for
each one of those, right?
Now in terms of the objections,
having your own content blocks
dedicated to objections doesn't
always work particularly well.
What you probably wanna consider
doing instead is integrating
dealing with those objections
as they come up, right?
So for example, well, let's take our Lose
the Weight after Pregnancy content block.
In that description,
you might wanna say something like,
our method is an FDA approved approach
to weight loss after pregnancy, right?
So what you've done there is
you've taken the objection of,
is this actually a real thing or
is it just a con, and
you've put in the FDA approved
bit in order to reassure people.
So you're kind of dealing with your
objections as they pop into people's
thinking.
And that's one of the big mistakes
people make with objections,
is they include them at the wrong time.
So, for example, no doubt your website
has a privacy policy that says what
you do with people's private data, right?
But it will be buried in
the footer somewhere, okay?
Now, people don't come
to the website going,
I wonder what the privacy policy is,
and go to the privacy section.
What they do is they go to sign up and go,
ooh, now you're asking me for personal
data, I'm not sure I'm comfortable
with that, what's your privacy policy?
Now if buried down in the footer,
people aren't gonna find it.
So you've got to put it there at that
moment when people think about it.
So as you're writing your content blocks,
you need to ask yourself what objections
are related to this content block.
So you can very systematically
assemble a page out of a series
of content blocks made up of benefits and
features.
Now through that, as I'll show you
later when we talk about design,
you're scattering things
like testimonials and
other forms of social proof and
calls to action.
But fundamentally,
your page is just made up of these
content blocks that build up together.
And even something like testimonials,
they are essentially content blocks,
you have a picture of the person
that you're talking about.
I recommend if you've got
a relatively long testimonial,
you pull out one little quote from
it that you make the heading.
So if people don't read
the whole of the testimonial,
they still get the summary version, and
maybe there's a link off to social media.
So that's basically content blocks and
how they work.
And actually I wanted to pick up on one
of the issues in particular which was
the example that I gave
about a fitness app.
Where I talked about a woman potentially
losing weight after being pregnant,
and there was some really
great feedback and
discussion about whether that
is actually a good example.
Whether actually that is a dot pattern in
itself making women feel like they have to
lose the weight.
And obviously I just gave it as
an example off the top of my head and
different women have
different feelings over that.
And I'm not a woman and
I've never been pregnant, so
I'm not gonna comment on that.
But what it does raise is a really
interesting point about dot patterns,
and that is that I can feel that
something is okay as the creator.
But really whether I see something
as being a dot pattern or
not is irrelevant,
is what my audience thinks that matters.
So for example, when I gave that as
an example, it didn't occur to me for
a moment that someone might
perceive that weight loss for
a pregnant woman would be a dot pattern.
Effectively shaming people to lose
weight that maybe don't necessarily
feel the need.
That didn't occur to me as a white
middle-class, middle-aged man, but
it would and did occur to certain
segments of the audience in the chat.
So to them,
it was a dot pattern even if my intention
wasn't to create a dot pattern.
And so you have to be incredibly
careful about this kind of thing,
that you've really got to
listen to user feedback and
adjust your marketing and your tone of
voice and your content accordingly.
And that's why iterative design and
A/B testing and user research and
user testing is so important,
because it's very easy, as I already did
with that example, to misjudge
a situation and go down the wrong line.
So it's a really interesting topic that
dot patterns aren't this black and
white thing.
You can't point to something and
say that is a dot pattern and that is not.
Because it does depend on perspectives,
and the only perspective that really
matters is that of the audience
you're trying to encourage to act.